I have a lot of experience managing teams and complex, long-running projects.
This includes managing relationships with customers from the Government,
University and Finance sectors, amongst others. I have also managed
relationships with partners, 3rd party service providers and internal
stakeholders (e.g. professional services, support, senior management
and boards) on specific projects.

In each organisation I have worked for I have initiated programs to improve
processes where necessary e.g. giving talks on best practices in software
engineering, advocating for the use of new technologies, frameworks, tools
and methodologies etc.

I have also given strategic advice on my areas of expertise e.g. information
retrieval, data mining, analytics etc., including planning how trends in
those areas can be taken advantage of by an organisation.

The advice I give is evidence-based, by reviewing and evaluating the
latest research and data. Where new initiatives were introduced I ensured
appropriate performance indicators were used to measure their effectiveness,
helping to manage the process of change and continuous improvement.

I am comfortable managing teams, providing regular feedback to the team
as a whole as well as individual members, and mentoring and coaching as
required. I managed a team in Funnelback that delivered robust, high quality
and scalable software that is still in use in organisations around the world
today.

At all times I led by example in terms of promoting a healthy and safe
work environment (including a good work-life balance), and ensuring that
honesty and ethical behaviour were valued, and that team success and
individual contributions were acknowledged and celebrated.

I have a strong background in Information Retrieval, having worked on search
engine technology at the CSIRO, Funnelback and Lucidworks. I have written
a 100 million page web crawler, recommender systems, a program for detecting
"spikes" and related queries in search engine logs and a text miner for
definitions from web pages.

In the examples above I initiated the design and development of each new
system or feature, from the proof of concept stage through to product launch
and production support.

Many of these systems were required to operate in mission-critical and high
volume environments. I initiated analysis of how these systems were used in
practice, which led to new product and feature ideas that further improved
each system.

In terms of skills and experience in relevant technologies, in my role at
Lucidworks I worked on software that interacted directly with Apache Solr,
and also have experience with Elasticsearch.

In my most recent position at GBG I implemented a "Business Verification"
system using Spring and Spring Boot. This used Hibernate for interaction
with a PostgreSQL database, which sometimes required query analysis and
the creation of indexes for improved performance. The front-end for the
system was implemented using Vue.js

If given the opportunity I look forward to applying the experience and skills
I have outlined above in helping the NLA to meet its strategic priorities.
